Welcome back team. 
In this video, we'll set up an Atlas account, deploy an Atlas cluster, 
and use the Data Explorer to load and view sample data. 
Let's go ahead and sign up for a new account on MongoDB Atlas. 
To do so, first we'll go to the MongoDB home page. 
In the upper right hand corner, you'll see the try free button. 
Go ahead and click on that, and it'll bring you to a signup page in which you can fill out 
this form in order to get a new account. If you have a Gmail, at the bottom, you'll also find 
a signup with Google button as well. After you've signed in, you'll be brought to your Atlas dashboard. 
Your first organization will be active in the upper left hand corner. 

Organizations allow you to group and define users and teams and grant them access to projects. 
Projects allow you to define and organize resources like database clusters. 
One common way to use this feature is to create separate projects for development, testing, and production environments. 

Let's go ahead and create our first Atlas database. 
To do so, I'll click on the Build a database button in the middle of the screen. 
This will bring us to our deployment selection screen. 
Here, we can see that we have a choice between our server lists, dedicated, and shared tier options. 
Today we're going to be creating a free tier cluster, so we'll go ahead and click on the Create button to move forward. 

After clicking Create, we'll be brought to the configuration page for our instance. 
First, we'll select the cloud provider and region for our instance. 
For this particular case, we'll be using AWS, but feel free to use GCP or Azure as your project dictates. 
Today, I'm in our New York office, so I'm going to go ahead and use the US East region, 
but feel free to use whichever region is appropriate for you. 

Scrolling further down the page, you can see that there's even more configuration settings. 
First, let's check out the clusters here. Today we're going to be using the free tier M0, 
but if you ever feel that you want to upgrade to one of our paid tier, 
you can move to the M2 or M5 quite easily. 
You can also move to the M10 or higher dedicated tier as well. 
Next, let's move to our additional settings. 
Here, you can see that we can turn on the backup setting for M2 and above clusters. 
Again, we'll be on M0, so we don't need to worry about turning this on. 

Finally, we can customize the cluster name. 
For our example today, we'll go ahead and leave the default cluster name of cluster 0 as our selection. 
From here, we'll go ahead and click on Create cluster. 
After creating our instance, we'll be brought to the security quickstart page. 
As a default, MongoDB is created with no users and no IP address that's allowed to access that database outside of the Atlas system itself. So to get started, we're going to need to create an administrative user as well as create an access point for our IP address. 

Let's go ahead and start with the administrative user. 
In the username and password section, I'll go ahead and create an admin and a password. 
After doing so, go ahead and click on Create user to create this new administrative user. 
As you can see, we've created our new username and authentication type for this user. 

Let's go ahead and scroll down to the IP address section. 
As I stated previously, MongoDB blocks access from all IP addresses except for Atlas itself. 
In order to be able to work with MongoDB from your local machine, you'll need to put your IP address on the access list. 
To do so you can go ahead and click on the Add my current IP address button. 
Additionally, if you want to add other IP addresses, you can use this menu as well. 
After adding your IP address go ahead and click on Finish. and close. 

Go ahead and click on Go to databases. 
After finishing with your security quickstart, you'll be brought back to the database deployment screen. 
You'll notice that we don't have data in the database so far. 
To add new data, we're going to go ahead and load a sample data set. 
To do so, go ahead and click on the ellipsis next to browse collections, 
and then click on Load sample data set. 

This will bring up another modal box in which you can also click on Load sample data set. 
Once you do so, you'll start loading sample data into your database. 
This process will take a few minutes, so feel free to go grab a coffee or a tea and just take a short break. 

Once Atlas has successfully finished uploading your sample data, you'll be able to view that data in the Data Explorer. 
To do so, let's go ahead and click on Browse collections. This will open Atlas Data Explorer, 
which will allow you to view, filter, and even modify your data. On the left hand menu, 
you'll see a listing of all the databases available within your cluster. 
For example, we've got the sample Airbnb database, as well as the sample analytics database. 

Let's go ahead and click on the sample analytics database. 
This will then bring us to a view in which we can see all the collections available within that database. 
If we want to view the documents within a particular collection, we can click on the name of the collection 
within the left hand menu or on the name of that collection in the view on the right side. 
Let's go ahead and take a look at our account's collection. 

As we can see, we can view the documents that exist within the accounts collection from this view. 
What if we wanted to filter down to a specific account value, though? 
We can use the filter bar to specify a particular query in order to find a specific document. 
For example, what if I wanted to find a document by its account ID field? 
We can enter a filter document for an account ID field of 794875. 
To apply this filter to our data, we'll go ahead and click on the Apply button. 

We can see that this reduces our view to a single document within the collection. 
Now that you've learned how to filter for specific documents within a collection, 
as well as selecting collections and databases within your cluster, 
you're ready to start working with the Data Explorer in Atlas. 

Let's quickly recap what we accomplished in this video. 
We set up an Atlas account and deployed our first Atlas cluster. 
We then set up a database user and added our IP address to the IP access list. 
Finally, we used the Data Explorer to load and view our sample data. 